My personal metric for the quality of a language is the sum amount of cringe which you feel reading a normal program written in it. Rust replaces the emotion of cringe with that of depression. Whereas most languages throw errors for stupid things which really should have just been thought through when they were designing the language (cough cough Java), Rust throws errors for the sole purpose of proving to you that you are an idiot. And it is good at it. Rust's compiler demands that your code be (almost pedantically) correct, meaning that the top three or four fundamental errors in program design (anything to do with the concept of null, memory safety, thread safety) have to be explicitly opted into for your code to compile. This all ads up to a language which is horrible for scripts, but excellent for projects. I am genuinely frightened by the idea of writing a rust program which is less than 100 lines long, because it's simply not worth it, but anything more than that and it's the first language I think of. It strikes a fine balance between being a [programming language for babies](https://scratch.mit.edu) and letting you shoot yourself in the foot with no warning. It also has great support for alternative structures like functional programming without oversimplifying to the point of making the implementation actually harder to understand. I don't like languages like python because what you gain in 'pretty code' entirely disappears after a certain level of complexity and just leaves behind a mess. Also, python has terrible errors (interpreted languages are generally a bad idea and lead to phantom bugs), is dynamically typed (see [programming language for babies](scratch.mit.edu)), and even has semantic whitespace beyond just separating other tokens(that's a halfway bad idea, but the fact that every implementation of python I've ever seen is stricter about this than about *actual* problems with code is unbelievably annoying). Really, I have a hard time understanding why so many people love Python so much. At best, I think it's fine. See [this survey on language favorability](https://insights.stackoverflow.com/survey/2019#technology-_-most-loved-dreaded-and-wanted-languages) which supports my argument, but only slightly, as Python is only about 10% less beloved to people who know what it is than Rust. I'd say that the reason that people who use rust love using it is that after you get over the (admittedly terrible) learning curve, the way it forces you to program leads to cleaner, faster, more reusable, and more elegant (in the sense of displaying the logic well without hiding much of it) code.

If you want to look at a project that I've made in rust for one of my classes go [here](https://github.com/ericpinter/IntegralApproximation/blob/master/src/main.rs) and if you want to see one I made for fun go [here](https://github.com/ericpinter/TabletopBot/blob/Rust/src/main.rs).
