---
layout: post
author: "Eric Pinter"
title:  "Project Reflection"
date:   2019-12-16 08:00:00 -0500
categories: Reflection
---
Over the course of this project I got a good understanding of why being ‘self-sufficient’ is extremely important in larger projects, as for most of the project we were waiting to hear back from our partner on various things. Luckily I think that I (and the rest of the group) were able to guess what they would and wouldn’t need, for example when we were building the database. I also went to a lot of effort to communicate (not literally but in terms of design) the way that our website functions by making it as easy to use and understand as possible, both because of our particular clients being a bit technology averse and because of the massive benefits in debugging and testing something which is as consistent and straightforward as possible.

One of the big themes of our project was the contextual role that our website would play in the charity's mission. There were a lot of considerations, like how childcare providers would be stored in our database and how our website partially serves to direct its users to the charity’s facebook page and contact information, for which having an extremely specific understanding of what our website *didn’t* need to do was even more important than understanding what it did need to do. In the end I think that really being successful on this front meant that our community partner got better results than just having a good website or having a facebook page. We also thought a lot about maintainability and flexibility because we understood that our system would hopefully be used for a couple of years, and that the systems which we designed should still hold up even if people used them slightly differently than we envisioned. Also, we were reminded by the bad state their current website was in that our website would most likely have to be changed years from now, and that we had a responsibility to the person who would eventually have to do that to make sure that they didn’t have to start over from scratch.

By far the most interesting part of this experience was how much it didn’t feel like working for a charity. We only interacted with our community partners a handful of times (though each one of those was very instructive and moved the project along well) and the work that we did was not the type of thing that I think of as charity work. This was definitely interesting because it made me realize (even though it sounds a little silly now) that it is entirely possible to get fulfilment from volunteering just as much because you like the thing that you’re doing as because it is helping other people. I’m glad that the topic which I’m studying in is right in the sweet-spot of being useful enough to help people while still being general enough that it isn’t only for profit businesses who can use it. I even feel like our project was a very basic example of this, which makes me want to look into similar types of projects and other ways to donate my time and skills and see how far they might get. I also want to see what types of totally new systems I could help create, because the current project was just a significant overhaul instead of a completely new product.

Overall, this project was a fun learning experience for me. I got to wrap my head around the way other people think about and interact with the topics I’ve been learning about for the past years. I really enjoyed the exposure to volunteering my skills as far as computing and technology goes, and I hope that I find similar (if not greater) opportunities to volunteer somewhere down the line.
